To create my website, I utilized flask, html, css, javascript, bootstrap, and sql. In creating my website, I did substantial background research by inspecting the source code of websites I liked, watching video tutorials on website development, and reading documentation on flask and bootstrap. In this document, I will discuss some of the special features that I implemented on my website. 

In my layout.html page, I created my navbar and footer, and I used bootstrap and css to make the page fit the overall branding of the website. I also included a container below my navbar where alert messages can be displayed. To display alert messages, I imported flash from Flask. The flash function passes messages from the app.py page to the associated html page. These messages can be retrieved in layout.html by the function "get_flashed_messages()". Thus, in layout.html; I simply need to iterate through each message in get_flashed_messages() in order to display any messages that are being transmitted from app.py. Adding this functionality to my layout.html page allowed me to very easily pass messages to any page in my website. I utilize the flash function to display error messages, and to tell the user that an action has been successfully completed (logging in/out, adding item to cart, etc.).

The user is required to register and log into their account in order to add items to their cart and check out. The registration page requires the user to provide an email, password, and password confirmation. In app.py, I check the user's inputted information against the user sql table to ensure that the username is not already taken, and that the passwords match and meet some security requirements (certain length, inclusion of numbers and special characters, etc.). If the user's registration is valid, the user's username and a hash of their password is added to the users sql table, and they are assigned an id number. They are then redirected to the login page, where the user provides their username and password. The username and a hash of the password are checked against the values in the users table, and if the information matches, the user is logged in. If at any point in this process the user inputs invalid information, an associated error message will be flashed. 

In my product pages, I include pictures of the item, information on the item, and a form to fill out to order the item. I have displayed the item images using bootstrap's carousel documentation, which I learned from W3 schools. The carousel feature on bootstrap allows the user to navigate through a slideshow of images. I love this feature because it enables me to easily display multiple images of my product in a professional-looking way. The item pages also include forms for the user to input their product specifications. The order form will only be successfully submitted if the user is logged in, which is checked in app.py by seeing if the user has a value for session["user_id"]. If the user is not logged in, an error message will flash and the user will be redirected to the login page. If the user is logged in, app.py will check that all of the necessary fields are filled, flashing an error message if anything is missing. If everything is correct, the product details and the user's session["user_id"] will be added to the cart sql database, and a message will flash informing the user that the product has been added to their cart. 

In the cart page, the user can see all of the items they have added to their cart, along with their details (size and color), quantity, and total price. These items are displayed by retrieving all of the items associated with the user from the cart sql table, passing the items to cart.html, and then cycling through each entry to display the product details in a table. If the user wishes to delete an item from their cart, they can select the associated delete button. In order to implement the delete functionality, for each item in the table in cart.html I created a form with the action "/delete". Within this form there is a hidden input with a value set to the id of the item, and a delete button that would submit the form when pressed. When the delete route is called in app.py; I retrieve the id of the item via the hidden input, use a sql query to delete that item from the cart sql table, and then redirect to the /cart route to reload the cart with the item deleted. When the cart is submitted, the items in the user's cart are inserted into the new_projects table, deleted from the cart table, and the user is sent an email confirming that their order has been submitted. 

I implemented the email functionality using the flask_mail package, as was shown in lecture. I created an email to be associated with my website, and I stored my email password in the environment (outside of my app.py file) in order to be more secure. When I wish to send a user an email, all I need to do is retrieve their email from the users table, create a message, and execute mail.send(message). 

Once the user side of the website was implemented, I went about creating knitter-specific pages that would allow for various knitters to claim projects and track the projects that are currently in progress. Because I wanted to ensure that only knitters had access to the page, I made it password protected (the password is 'KnitByCC123!', if I publish the webpage I will make it something more secure and store the password outside of app.py in the environment). The idea behind this is that after a knitter who wished to join was vetted, I would provide them with the password to the knitter site and they would be able to create their own account. The password is passed to app.py via a form, and if the inputted password is correct the knitter is allowed to proceed to the knitter login and registration pages. These pages function the same as the user login and registration pages described above, except that the knitter's information is stored in a separate sql table called knitters. Once the knitter is logged in, their unique knitter index page is displayed. 

In the knitter index page there are two tables: one titled New Projects and one titled My Projects. To generate the New Projects table, I execute a sql command to collect all of the projects in the new_projects table that do not have a value in the knitter field. These projects are passed to knitterindex.html and displayed in the New Projects table. Similarly to how I created the cart, each item in the New Projects table has an associated form, with a hidden input field whose value is the key associated with the project, and a button that submits the form labeled "Accept Project". If the knitter clicks the Accept Project button, the /accept route is executed. In /accept, I update the item's entry in new_projects to assign the knitter's unique idea to the knitter field. I also use flask_mail to send the customer a message saying that their project has been accepted by a knitter. Once these commands are executed, the knitterindex page is reloaded. This project should now appear only in the My Projects table.

The second table in the Knitter Index page is My Projects. To generate the My Projects table, I execute a sql command to collect all the products in the new_projects table where the knitter field equals the knitter's id. Each item in the My Projects table has an associated form, with a hidden input whose value is the key associated with the project, and a button that submits the form to /complete with the label "Complete Project". If the knitter clicks this button, the /complete route is executed. In /complete, I execute sql commmands to add the item to the completed_projects sql table and delete the project from the new_projects sql table. I also use flask_mail to send the customer a message saying that their project has been completed. Once these commands are executed, the knitterindex page is reloaded, and the project will no longer appear in the My Projects table.

Aside from these major features, I also spent a considerable amount of time on my css in order to create a cohesive look to my website. I chose a color and font to remain consistent throughout the pages, and I added fun features in css like shading buttons, icons, and shifting the image of a product slightly upwards when the project is hovered over. I also used css to format my pages, creating two column and 3 columnn webpage styles. 

Thank you so much for reading, and I hope you enjoy exploring Knit By CC!:)